[Music]
she captivated millions on both sides of
the Atlantic she was even dubbed the
most beautiful woman that ever lived her
life behind the scenes was as enigmatic
as her image on screen so whatever
happened to silent film star Greta Garbo
after all that success the Swedish
actress never really liked talking to
the press you know which he famously
said when asked about her personal life
I was born I had a mother and father I
went to school what does it matter and
still her younger days in Sweden
affected her deeply if not for them she
probably wouldn't have found her calling
at all but let's not get ahead of
ourselves
she was born Greta Lovisa Gusterson on
September 18th 1905 - a working-class
family that lived in a poor part of
Stockholm she was only 13 years old when
she finished middle school and decided
not to go on to high school so that she
could take care of her sick father her
dad passed a year later leaving her
family of four now in unimaginable
financial hardship she desperately had
to earn a living so she started working
at a department store that store was the
place where she made her acting debut of
sorts she first started modeling for
their clothing catalog and soon found
herself with a full-time modeling gig
once she started acting in commercials
in 1920 her path to the big screen was
now wide open she landed her first movie
role in 1922 when she starred in a
Swedish comedy not long after that Greta
enrolled in acting school at Stockholm
's Royal dramatic theatre when she
graduated in 1924 she was discovered by
one of Sweden's leading directors Moritz
Stiller he cast her in his new film the
saga of Gustav Burling Stiller in a way
became her guardian and introduced her
to the world of cinema he was also the
one who insisted she use a stage name
after all
Gustav son didn't exactly roll off the
tongue and the difficult pronunciation
would make the aspiring actresses name
remember and thus greta garbo was born
there's a bunch of versions of where the
new stage name came from but one of them
explains that it was inspired by the
Italian musical term meaning with grace
which surely matched Greta's elegance in
any case Garbo proved to be quite a
catchy name as her notoriety grew in
Europe and soon enough
her fame would go transatlantic in 1925
the famous American film studio
metro-goldwyn-mayer offered Stiller to
work in Hollywood he said yes but only
if his 19 year old protege could come
with him the studio agreed and before
long
Garbo and Stiller set foot on US soil
with their MGM contracts in hand but it
was a time when talent wasn't enough for
an actress to become a big star
Garbo was forced to lose weight and
learn English
her hair was dyed her teeth were fixed
and her eye brows were tweezed into thin
threads sure she was beautiful as is but
she still needed to have the look of the
time one thing that remained ever
unchanged was her magnificent large eyes
framed by long eyelashes they became her
signature features in 1926 Garbo played
a Spanish singer in her first american
film called torrent it was a hit and
Garbo was instantly proclaimed the next
big thing all the silent movies she made
over the next few years were extremely
successful she practically became MGM's
biggest star
most of Garbo's films were love stories
or dramas and her unique performance
on-screen combined both passion and
restraint I wonder if we could say the
same thing about her real life her most
notable relationship was with her
co-star actor John Gilbert their romance
was highly publicized and that's led to
some to believe that it was arranged and
on the big day of their wedding Garbo
never showed up
the runaway brides explanation for that
stunt was her fierce independence she
wanted to live for herself and be her
own boss
greta garbo was unique in other ways too
despite being one of hollywood's major
idols she didn't attend movie premieres
talked to reporters or sign autographs
journalists called her the swedish
sphinx because an air of mystery
surrounded her she often kept to herself
even on set forbidding others from
watching her work in front of the camera
she explained if I am by myself my face
will do things I cannot do with it
otherwise as much as she wanted her
surroundings to be a certain way there
were still things beyond her control by
the late 1920s the silent film era was
at its end MGM fear that Garbo wouldn't
do so well in the talkies because of her
Scandinavian accent and her rough voice
in 1930 she made her debut in the sound
film Anna Christie the posters promoting
the movie red Garbo talks
well her raspy sound fascinated people
no less than her gaze that could
replicate dozens of emotions the picture
was once again well-received
following the movie's success she
appeared in Grand Hotel in 1932 which
won an Oscar for Best Picture as for any
Academy Awards for Garbo herself she was
nominated for Best Actress three times
but never won except for one special
prize but I'll get into that and a bet
Garbo never worked for any other
Hollywood studio but MGM she was their
it girl and they were willing to pay
whatever she saw fit her worth according
to time she was the top paid actor in
1934 with a whopping five hundred
thousand dollar salary mind you that was
crazy money back then and it'll be like
ten million dollars today it seemed as
if Garbo was a 100 percent guarantee of
success and that films with her in the
lead simply couldn't fail to this day
her role in Camille in 1936 is
considered her best performance and then
came the late 30s when Garbo decided
she'd give comedy a try in 1939 she
portrayed a Russian agent in ninotchka
and what do you think the posters read
this time yep
Garbo laughs the movie was quite popular
and MGM decided to give Garbo's newly
found comedic talent another shot if
only they'd known that her next role
would pretty much in her career in 1941
she appeared in two-faced woman the
critics called the story silly and it
was a flop
the film's failure supposedly hurt the
actresses self-esteem tremendously
whether or not that's true
Garbo decided to retire from Hollywood
at least for a while as it turned out
later she left cinema for good but that
doesn't mean she was forgotten after all
she was just 36 years old at the time
she kept getting new offers one after
another for the rest of her life many
legendary directors tried to get her to
work with them
including the master of terror himself
Alfred Hitchcock but she turned down
every one of them just so that she could
live another life she might have grown
tired of Hollywood but the world hadn't
grown tired of her in 1950 the Guinness
Book of Records dubbed her the most
beautiful woman that ever lived it might
not be an Oscar but that's still
something in 1954 she eventually did get
her Oscar but not for any film
specifically she was presented with an
Academy honorary Award for her
unforgettable screen performances just
like on her wedding day so many years
ago
Garbo didn't show up to the ceremony
after she stopped acting she became even
more reclusive than before she moved to
Manhattan where she'd take long strolls
down the streets of New York wearing
huge sunglasses not to be spotted
photographers tried to catch a glimpse
of her but they rarely succeeded the
actress barely put her famous name even
on private letters instead she used
different pseudonyms mostly Harriet
brown but it's not like Garbo lived in
complete isolation from the rest of the
world though she never married she
surely had many friends including
photographer Cecil Beaton and Baroness
Cecile de Rothschild
so perhaps recluse isn't the right word
she just valued her privacy and liked to
keep only close friends nearby and
although she wasn't making movies
anymore she hadn't given up on art
entirely she turned to collecting
paintings and bought the works of
Jelinski Renoir and many others she kept
them in her New York apartment the one
she lived in for almost 50 years she
said that she wanted her rooms to sing
and color was the perfect way to achieve
that Greta Garbo died in 1990 at the age
of 84 as biographer Barry Paris put it
she was an anomaly she was both
something to be experienced rather than
adored but people did both during her
short but exceptional career she
appeared in nearly 30 feature films her
talent and beauty inspired entire
generations of actors artists and
musicians for years to come so who's
your most favorite actor of all time let
me know down in the comments if you
learned something new today then give
this video a like and share it with a
friend but hey don't disappear like
Garbo just yet we have over two thousand
cool videos for you to check out all you
have to do is pick the left or right
video click on it and enjoy stay on the
bright side of life